1.0

User actions now appear in priority order: I am a human, Revive, Diplomacy, then Assassinations.

For AI players, removed the penalty for ignoring event 14 (see 0.9.7 changelog) and added a chance every round for raiders to be removed since AI almost always ignores them.

Softened the Stack Tax for AI players, to prevent humans from crippling them by luring the AI into stacking.

Added a new event 12, neutral dragon raid, and combined the flood and peasant revolt as event 15, alternating every other round. Done to prevent the great negative impact caused when flood or revolt events repeated.

Damage from dragon raids (strategic bombing) is still limited by the PU value of the territory, but now each individual dragon can cause damage up to the limit, rather than the limit capping total damage.

Bowmen have been reduced in cost from 5 to 4 PUs.

Certain magical treasures have increased in power, for instance the Mighty Servant of Leuk-o now adds a defensive strength of 3 to fortifications, and the Spade of Colossal Excavation makes them cheaper.

Nyrond's national power has been increased so that heroes strengthen 8 instead of 7 units, and the leader 15 instead of 12.

The types of terrain included in Iron League's national power have been increased. Iron League human infantry now also receive bonuses and can blitz in any terrain. Iron League cavalry also receive bonuses in all terrain and can enter mountains and swamps, but can only blitz hills and forests.

Altered diplomacy and surprise alliance events to prevent them from immediately destroying enemy leaders or heroes who may be occupying affected territories.

Since it learned to protect them, AI will now spawn heroes less often.

Slight rebalancing of territory PUs and starting units.


0.9.9

Now that the Hard AI is performing so well, the default AI bonus income percentage has been reduced to zero.

Changed "Placement Restricted By Factory" to false to disable the warning, because excess units are banked, not lost, and because mercenary territories throw off the calculation anyway.

Added a tips section to the game notes.

Increased giants' offensiveAttackAA and attackAA values to 2.

Known issue: if a player leaves all remaining leaders and heroes on transports, they are hidden from the condition that triggers vanquishing and will be changed to vanquished. Added triggers that un-vanquish such a player when they return a hero or leader to a land territory. Also added explanatory notifications.

Changed several national objectives from directOwnership to alliedOwnership, allowing their fulfillment even if an ally conquers the territories in question.

Slight rebalancing of territory PUs and starting units.


0.9.8

Added "isFactory" back to leaders and heroes because the Hard AI didn't recognize them as factories.

To keep the Hard AI from using them as cannon fodder, gave leaders, heroes, and bowmen "canNotMoveDuringCombatMove". Then created a user action where human players can freely gain a custom tech which activates triggers that change "canNotMoveDuringCombatMove" to false during their turn. Alternatively, a game option can be used for the same purpose. Greyhawk is now playable with Hard AI.

To prevent the AI from fixating on ungovernable territories, used "unitsNotAllowed" to prevent any units from entering them. This is disabled by the same "I am Human" custom tech.

With the Hard AI now recognizing them as mobile factories, was able to remove the stacking limit on heroes, and the triggers that flipped their support abilities off during movement.

Slight rebalancing of starting PUs and units.


0.9.7

Made various textual changes in notes and notifications.

Added "other" success and failure notifications for actions.

For leaders and heroes removed "isFactory" and added "canProduceUnits" and "canBeDamaged" so that they can still produce and be bombed, but don't have the placement limits/behavior of factories (they are still isInfrastructure). (This was reversed in the next version.)

Changed "Scramble To Any Amphibious Assault" to false, since "Scramble To Sea Only" is true, and since dragons themselves are the only air bases and can already have air battles.

Fixed the problem of leaders sometimes getting movement 6 (it was related to the reset after flood events).

Fixed a trigger (Magic_18b) that was allowing Iuz to receive two magic items in a single round.

Changed the sequence, moving Purchase from before CombatMove to before Place. Consequently shifted the timing of all events to after Politics, all magic to before Purchase, and ungovernables to after Politics. This prevents a number of AI problems, including one that frequently caused Hard AI to crash. (Triggers changing territory ownership, spawning units, or removing units were the problem. The AI would make a plan and then the units it planned to do something with had disappeared.)

Updated event 9 (rebellions) to only fire if the faction owns all the involved territories, so that other factions can't lose territories through this event.

Changed event 9 for Pomarj to affect Welkwood and Gnarley Forest rather than Welkwood South, since for all other factions it only affects conquered, not original territories. Also removed Reyhu from Furyondy's event 9.

Using a negative national objective, created a -10 PU penalty for ignoring event 14 (neutral raid within your original territories). Previously it wasn't worth the trouble of quashing the rebellion.

Introduced a "stack tax" using negative national objectives. Suffer a -5 PU penalty for every territory in which you amass more than 15 non-infrastructure units. Penalties increase with stack size.

Added a movement and placement (but not attacking) limit of 60 non-infrastructure units per territory. Stacks cannot exceed this.

*perhaps temporarily* Added a movement and attacking limit for all heroes. A faction cannot have more than 1 hero per territory. Attempting to keep AI from bunching them up and then not being able to place its new units. (This was reversed in the next version.)

*perhaps temporarily* Added triggers that remove the support function of leaders and heroes during movement phases, but not during purchase or battle. Attempt to keep Hard AI from thinking of them only as cannon fodder. Mixed success. (This was reversed in the next version.)

Scrambling can be disabled as a game option, preventing Medium AI errors.


0.9.6 

Everything has changed.